README.md, before:

## Introduction

*Pharo by Example (vol 1)* is a practical introduction for Pharo, a Smalltalk-inspired programming language, IDE and live coding enviroment. This book is an updated version of [Pharo By Example for Pharo 1.4](https://github.com/SquareBracketAssociates/PharoByExample-english).

This version focuses on the latest stable version of Pharo (Pharo 4, at the time of writing).

You can find more info and documentation about Pharo at [Pharo.org](http://pharo.org/).

#### Chapter Progress

Chapter | Status | Latest | Link reference |
:-------|:-------|:-------|:----------------
1 - **[Preface](Preface/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Preface/Preface.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Preface/Preface.pdf) |
2 - **[Pharo Tour](PharoTour)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoTour/PharoTour.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoTour/PharoTour.pdf) | `Chapter *: A Quick Tour of Pharo>../PharoTour/PharoTour.pillar@cha:tour*`
3 - [A First Application](FirstApplication/) | Copyedited, Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/FirstApplication/FirstApplication.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/FirstApplication/FirstApplication.pdf) | `Chapter *: A First Application>../FirstApplication/FirstApplicatioin.pier@cha:firstApp*`
4- **[Syntax in a Nutshell](SyntaxNutshell/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SyntaxNutshell/SyntaxNutshell.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SyntaxNutshell/SyntaxNutshell.pdf) | `Chapter *: Syntax in a Nutshell>../SyntaxNutshell/SyntaxNutshell.pillar@cha:syntax*`
5 - **[Understanding Messages](UnderstandingMessage/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/UnderstandingMessage/UnderstandingMessage.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/UnderstandingMessage/UnderstandingMessage.pdf) | `Chapter *: Understanding Message Syntax>../UnderstandingMessage/UnderstandingMessage.pillar@cha:messages*`
6 - [The Pharo Object Model](PharoObjectModel/) | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoObjectModel/PharoObjectModel.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoObjectModel/PharoObjectModel.pdf) | `Chapter *: The Pharo Object Model>../PharoObjectModel/PharoObjectModel.pier@cha:model*`
7 - [Environment](Environment/) | Copyedited, Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Environment/Environment.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Environment/Environment.pdf) | `Chapter *: The Pharo Environment>../Environment/Environment.pillar@cha:env* `
8 - [Sharing Code and Source Control](SharingCode/) | Copyedited, Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SharingCode/SharingCode.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SharingCode/SharingCode.pdf) | `Chapter *: Sharing Code and Source Control>./SharingCode/SharingCode.pillarr@cha:sharingCode*`
9 - **[SUnit](SUnit/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SUnit/SUnit.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SUnit/SUnit.pdf) | `Chapter *: SUnit>../SUnit/SUnit.pillar@cha:sunit*`
10 - **[Basic Classes](BasicClasses/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/BasicClasses/BasicClasses.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/BasicClasses/BasicClasses.pdf) | `Chapter *: Basic Classes>../BasicClasses/BasicClasses.pier@cha:basicClasses*`
11 - [Collections](Collections/) | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Collections/Collections.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Collections/Collections.pdf) | `Chapter *: Collections>../Collections/Collections.pier@cha:collections*`
12 - **[Streams](Streams/)** | Revised | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Streams/Streams.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Streams/Streams.pdf) | `Chapter *: Streams>../Streams/Streams.pillar@cha:streams*`
13 - [Morphic](Morphic/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Morphic/Morphic.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Morphic/Morphic.pdf) | `Chapter *: Morphic>../Morphic/Morphic.pier@cha:morphic*`
14 - [Seaside By Example](Seaside/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Seaside/Seaside.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Seaside/Seaside.pdf) | `Chapter *: Seaside By Example>../Seaside/Seaside.pier@cha:seaside*`
15 - **[Classes and Metaclasses](Metaclasses/)** | Revised | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Metaclasses/Metaclasses.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Metaclasses/Metaclasses.pdf) | `Chapter *: Classes and Metaclasses>../Metaclasses/Metaclasses.pillar@cha:metaclasses*`
16 - [Reflection](Reflection/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Reflection/Reflection.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Reflection/Reflection.pdf) | `Chapter *: Reflection>../Reflexion/Reflexion.pier@cha:reflection*`
17 - [Regular Expressions in Pharo](Regex/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Regex/Regex.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Regex/Regex.pdf) | `Chapter *: Regular Expressions in Pharo>../Regex/Regex.pier@cha:regex*`

## Contributing to Updated Pharo By Example (vol 1)
This book follows the
[fork-and-pull](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#fork--pull)
GitHub workflow for contributions:

1. Fork the repository
2. For each addition, create a quick branch, prefixed with your initials. For
    example: `git checkout -b dz_streams_syntax_fix`
3. Make commits to that branch. When you're ready, make a
    [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#sending-the-pull-request)
4. The request will receive comments/corrections, and will be merged into the
    main repo.

More info about contributing to this book (including Pillar syntax, setting up
LaTeX, etc) can be found in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

Please send any comments, suggestions, or questions to the [pharo-dev](http://lists.pharo.org/mailman/listinfo/pharo-users_lists.pharo.org)
mailing list (see also the [Get Help](http://www.pharo.org/community) section of
[Pharo.org](http://www.pharo.org/)).

## Style Guide

This book is written in Pillar markup. If you are not familiar with it please check the [pillar-documentation](https://github.com/pillar-markup/pillar-documentation).
See also:

* [Documenting your Project with Pillar](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PillarChap/Pillar.html) chapter of Enterprise Pharo
* [Pillar Syntax Cheat Sheet](http://www.cheatography.com/benjaminvanryseghem/cheat-sheets/pillar/)
* [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

### Images
Images (screenshots and diagrams) use Pillar image syntax:

`+`Image caption`>file://figures/`filename`.png|width=80|label=fig:`label`+`

For example:

```
+A stream positioned at its beginning.>file://figures/abcde.png|width=100|label=fig:abcde+
```

* The `width` parameter is required (percentage of the screen).
* Place the files in the `figures` directory of the chapter they are in.
* The label should begin with `fig:`
* When taking screenshots (PNG format), please compress them (you can use
[TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com/) for easy and lossless compression)

To reference an image: `Figure *@fig:abcde*`  (renders to Figure 3.8, for
example).

### Scripts and Code Blocks
For scripts, method definitions and other code blocks:

```
[[[language=smalltalk|caption=Hello World in a Transcript|label=src:helloWorld
	Transcript show: 'hello world'; cr.
]]]
```

Note that the label starts with `src:`.

To reference code blocks, use `Script *@scr:helloWorld*` (similar to Figures).

### Chapter and Section Reference Links

Whenever you refer to other chapters of the book, please use the Pillar internal
link syntax and the chapter name. (The `cha:` in the id is to denote that it's
a chapter, to differentiate from a section id.) For example:

`Chapter 8: *Seaside By Example>../Seaside/Seaside.pier@cha:seaside*`

A list of chapter ref link code is provided, to easily copy and paste, in the
Chapter Progress / table of contents above.

### General Style Guidelines
Please keep in mind the following:

* When possible, hard-wrap lines at 80 characters (e.g. `Meta-Q` in Emacs,
    `Cmd-Alt-Q` in Atom). This is a common open-source documentation convention,
    and helps with viewing GitHub-generated diffs.
    However, due to Pillar limitations, ordered and unordered list elements must
    be on a single line to be correctly parsed. Those can be left un-wrapped.
* Only *one* space between sentences.
* Avoid periods in section titles. (For example, this section is titled "Style Guide"
    and not "Style Guide.")
* All inline code mentions (objects, messages, variables, packages) should use the
    Pillar monospace notation: `==Object==`.

## Latest Builds

The latest versions of *Updated Pharo by Example* can be found at the following sites:

* Jenkins ![Build Status](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/buildStatus/icon?job=UpdatedPharoByExample)
    Latest PDF: [UpdatedPharoByExample.pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/view/Books/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/UpdatedPharoByExample.pdf). All Chapters: [UpdatedPharoByExample build artifacts](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/)
* Travis ![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SquareBracketAssociates/UpdatedPharoByExample.svg?branch=master)(https://travis-ci.org/SquareBracketAssociates/UpdatedPharoByExample)

## Other Books
#### Deep Into Pharo (Pharo By Example vol 2)
[Deep into Pharo](http://www.deepintopharo.com/) ([source code](https://gforge.inria.fr/scm/viewvc.php/PharoByExampleTwo-Eng/?root=pharobooks)) is the second volume of a series of books covering Pharo. Whereas the first volume is intended for newcomers, this second volume covers deeper topics.

#### Enterprise Pharo
[Enterprise Pharo](https://github.com/SquareBracketAssociates/EnterprisePharo) ([latest PDF](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/PharoForTheEnterprise/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/EnterprisePharo.pdf)) is a new book that describes Enterprise-related libraries for Pharo.

Commit message:

Be explicit about which chapter a topic branch is associated with to hep co-ordinate per chapter stints of work.

README.md, after:

## Introduction

*Pharo by Example (vol 1)* is a practical introduction for Pharo, a Smalltalk-inspired programming language, IDE and live coding enviroment. This book is an updated version of [Pharo By Example for Pharo 1.4](https://github.com/SquareBracketAssociates/PharoByExample-english).

This version focuses on the latest stable version of Pharo (Pharo 4, at the time of writing).

You can find more info and documentation about Pharo at [Pharo.org](http://pharo.org/).

#### Chapter Progress

Chapter | Status | Latest | Link reference |
:-------|:-------|:-------|:----------------
1 - **[Preface](Preface/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Preface/Preface.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Preface/Preface.pdf) |
2 - **[Pharo Tour](PharoTour)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoTour/PharoTour.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoTour/PharoTour.pdf) | `Chapter *: A Quick Tour of Pharo>../PharoTour/PharoTour.pillar@cha:tour*`
3 - [A First Application](FirstApplication/) | Copyedited, Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/FirstApplication/FirstApplication.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/FirstApplication/FirstApplication.pdf) | `Chapter *: A First Application>../FirstApplication/FirstApplicatioin.pier@cha:firstApp*`
4- **[Syntax in a Nutshell](SyntaxNutshell/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SyntaxNutshell/SyntaxNutshell.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SyntaxNutshell/SyntaxNutshell.pdf) | `Chapter *: Syntax in a Nutshell>../SyntaxNutshell/SyntaxNutshell.pillar@cha:syntax*`
5 - **[Understanding Messages](UnderstandingMessage/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/UnderstandingMessage/UnderstandingMessage.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/UnderstandingMessage/UnderstandingMessage.pdf) | `Chapter *: Understanding Message Syntax>../UnderstandingMessage/UnderstandingMessage.pillar@cha:messages*`
6 - [The Pharo Object Model](PharoObjectModel/) | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoObjectModel/PharoObjectModel.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PharoObjectModel/PharoObjectModel.pdf) | `Chapter *: The Pharo Object Model>../PharoObjectModel/PharoObjectModel.pier@cha:model*`
7 - [Environment](Environment/) | Copyedited, Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Environment/Environment.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Environment/Environment.pdf) | `Chapter *: The Pharo Environment>../Environment/Environment.pillar@cha:env* `
8 - [Sharing Code and Source Control](SharingCode/) | Copyedited, Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SharingCode/SharingCode.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SharingCode/SharingCode.pdf) | `Chapter *: Sharing Code and Source Control>./SharingCode/SharingCode.pillarr@cha:sharingCode*`
9 - **[SUnit](SUnit/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SUnit/SUnit.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/SUnit/SUnit.pdf) | `Chapter *: SUnit>../SUnit/SUnit.pillar@cha:sunit*`
10 - **[Basic Classes](BasicClasses/)** | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/BasicClasses/BasicClasses.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/BasicClasses/BasicClasses.pdf) | `Chapter *: Basic Classes>../BasicClasses/BasicClasses.pier@cha:basicClasses*`
11 - [Collections](Collections/) | Revised, copyedited | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Collections/Collections.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Collections/Collections.pdf) | `Chapter *: Collections>../Collections/Collections.pier@cha:collections*`
12 - **[Streams](Streams/)** | Revised | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Streams/Streams.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Streams/Streams.pdf) | `Chapter *: Streams>../Streams/Streams.pillar@cha:streams*`
13 - [Morphic](Morphic/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Morphic/Morphic.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Morphic/Morphic.pdf) | `Chapter *: Morphic>../Morphic/Morphic.pier@cha:morphic*`
14 - [Seaside By Example](Seaside/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Seaside/Seaside.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Seaside/Seaside.pdf) | `Chapter *: Seaside By Example>../Seaside/Seaside.pier@cha:seaside*`
15 - **[Classes and Metaclasses](Metaclasses/)** | Revised | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Metaclasses/Metaclasses.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Metaclasses/Metaclasses.pdf) | `Chapter *: Classes and Metaclasses>../Metaclasses/Metaclasses.pillar@cha:metaclasses*`
16 - [Reflection](Reflection/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Reflection/Reflection.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Reflection/Reflection.pdf) | `Chapter *: Reflection>../Reflexion/Reflexion.pier@cha:reflection*`
17 - [Regular Expressions in Pharo](Regex/) | Needs revision | [html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Regex/Regex.html) [pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/Regex/Regex.pdf) | `Chapter *: Regular Expressions in Pharo>../Regex/Regex.pier@cha:regex*`

## Contributing to Updated Pharo By Example (vol 1)
This book follows the
[fork-and-pull](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#fork--pull)
GitHub workflow for contributions:

1. Fork the repository

2. For each modification, create a quick topic branch named in the form of...

   * initials_ChapterName_topicDescription   

   example: `git checkout -b dz_PharoTour_updateScreenSnapshots`

3. Make commits to that branch. When you're ready, make a
    [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#sending-the-pull-request)

4. The request will receive comments/corrections, and will be merged into the
    main repo.

More info about contributing to this book (including Pillar syntax, setting up
LaTeX, etc) can be found in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

Please send any comments, suggestions, or questions to the [pharo-dev](http://lists.pharo.org/mailman/listinfo/pharo-users_lists.pharo.org)
mailing list (see also the [Get Help](http://www.pharo.org/community) section of
[Pharo.org](http://www.pharo.org/)).

## Style Guide

This book is written in Pillar markup. If you are not familiar with it please check the [pillar-documentation](https://github.com/pillar-markup/pillar-documentation).
See also:

* [Documenting your Project with Pillar](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/PillarChap/Pillar.html) chapter of Enterprise Pharo
* [Pillar Syntax Cheat Sheet](http://www.cheatography.com/benjaminvanryseghem/cheat-sheets/pillar/)
* [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

### Images
Images (screenshots and diagrams) use Pillar image syntax:

`+`Image caption`>file://figures/`filename`.png|width=80|label=fig:`label`+`

For example:

```
+A stream positioned at its beginning.>file://figures/abcde.png|width=100|label=fig:abcde+
```

* The `width` parameter is required (percentage of the screen).
* Place the files in the `figures` directory of the chapter they are in.
* The label should begin with `fig:`
* When taking screenshots (PNG format), please compress them (you can use
[TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com/) for easy and lossless compression)

To reference an image: `Figure *@fig:abcde*`  (renders to Figure 3.8, for
example).

### Scripts and Code Blocks
For scripts, method definitions and other code blocks:

```
[[[language=smalltalk|caption=Hello World in a Transcript|label=src:helloWorld
	Transcript show: 'hello world'; cr.
]]]
```

Note that the label starts with `src:`.

To reference code blocks, use `Script *@scr:helloWorld*` (similar to Figures).

### Chapter and Section Reference Links

Whenever you refer to other chapters of the book, please use the Pillar internal
link syntax and the chapter name. (The `cha:` in the id is to denote that it's
a chapter, to differentiate from a section id.) For example:

`Chapter 8: *Seaside By Example>../Seaside/Seaside.pier@cha:seaside*`

A list of chapter ref link code is provided, to easily copy and paste, in the
Chapter Progress / table of contents above.

### General Style Guidelines
Please keep in mind the following:

* When possible, hard-wrap lines at 80 characters (e.g. `Meta-Q` in Emacs,
    `Cmd-Alt-Q` in Atom). This is a common open-source documentation convention,
    and helps with viewing GitHub-generated diffs.
    However, due to Pillar limitations, ordered and unordered list elements must
    be on a single line to be correctly parsed. Those can be left un-wrapped.
* Only *one* space between sentences.
* Avoid periods in section titles. (For example, this section is titled "Style Guide"
    and not "Style Guide.")
* All inline code mentions (objects, messages, variables, packages) should use the
    Pillar monospace notation: `==Object==`.

## Latest Builds

The latest versions of *Updated Pharo by Example* can be found at the following sites:

* Jenkins ![Build Status](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/buildStatus/icon?job=UpdatedPharoByExample)
    Latest PDF: [UpdatedPharoByExample.pdf](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/view/Books/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/UpdatedPharoByExample.pdf). All Chapters: [UpdatedPharoByExample build artifacts](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/)
* Travis ![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SquareBracketAssociates/UpdatedPharoByExample.svg?branch=master)(https://travis-ci.org/SquareBracketAssociates/UpdatedPharoByExample)

## Other Books
#### Deep Into Pharo (Pharo By Example vol 2)
[Deep into Pharo](http://www.deepintopharo.com/) ([source code](https://gforge.inria.fr/scm/viewvc.php/PharoByExampleTwo-Eng/?root=pharobooks)) is the second volume of a series of books covering Pharo. Whereas the first volume is intended for newcomers, this second volume covers deeper topics.

#### Enterprise Pharo
[Enterprise Pharo](https://github.com/SquareBracketAssociates/EnterprisePharo) ([latest PDF](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/PharoForTheEnterprise/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/EnterprisePharo.pdf)) is a new book that describes Enterprise-related libraries for Pharo.
